---
date: "2020-04-22T09:00:00Z"
title: 'Continuing our investment in Africa: Introducing the AWS Africa (Cape Town)
  Region'
twittercard: The new AWS Africa (Cape Town) Region is now open for business
twitterimage: /images/capetown.jpg
twitterlargeimage: "true"
useexcerpt: "true"
---

<img src="/images/capetown.jpg" width="650">

As COVID-19 has disrupted life as we know it, I have been inspired by
the stories of organizations around the world using AWS in very
important ways to help combat the virus and its impact. Whether it is
supporting the medical relief effort, advancing scientific research,
spinning up remote learning programs, or standing-up remote working
platforms, we have seen how providing access to scalable, dependable,
and highly secure computing power is vital to keep organizations moving
forward. This is why, today, we are announcing the AWS Africa (Cape
Town) Region is now open.

<!--more-->

An AWS Region in Africa will enable businesses and government
organizations, including those focused on fighting the effects of
COVID-19, to build cloud applications and store their data locally,
while reaching end users across Africa with even lower latency. AWS
Regions are composed of Availability Zones, each of which comprise one
or more data centers and are located in separate and distinct geographic
locations with enough distance to significantly reduce the risk of a
single event impacting business continuity, yet near enough to provide
low latency for high availability applications. Each Availability Zone
has independent power, cooling, and physical security and is connected
via redundant, ultra-low-latency networking. AWS customers focused on
high availability can design their applications to run in multiple
Availability Zones to achieve even greater fault-tolerance. AWS
infrastructure regions meet the highest levels of security, compliance,
and data protection. Local customers with data residency requirements,
and those looking to comply with the Protection of Personal Information
Act (POPIA), can also now store their content in South Africa with the
assurance that they retain complete ownership of their data and it will
not move unless they choose to move it.

With this new AWS infrastructure region, developers, enterprises,
start-ups, Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), education
institutions, and governments can leverage the benefits of AWS to start
their own businesses, drive innovation, build new products and services,
and help citizens across Africa. At this time, we have a number of
customers in Africa who are doing courageous things, at the forefront of
the COVID-19 fight. They are helping to provide life-saving information
and resources, modelling data and delivering analytics to governments,
ensuring millions of students continue to get the education they
deserve, and connecting citizens with healthcare providers --
demonstrating firsthand the power of cloud computing. For example, to
help with remote learning, virtual schooling provider [Top Dog
Education](https://www.mytopdog.co.za/) is allowing millions of school
children to continue with their education, through the
[CambriLearn](http://www.cambrilearn.com) and
[MyTopDog](http://www.mytopdog.co.za) learning platforms, running on
AWS. Learners have access to e-lessons, study material, accredited
tutors, *andÂ interactive material* -- helping them keep learning and
engaged during these challenging times. To help companies in stay in
business during "shelter in place" guidance, Accenture has developed a
COVID call center offer for enterprises, offering Amazon Chime, Amazon
Connect, Amazon WorkDocs, and Amazon WorkSpaces services to help
businesses stay connected from anywhere, on any device, and respond to
customer requests. This is giving call centers and customer support
operations across South Africa the ability to quickly spin up
environments so their agents can safely work from home.

Speed, and the ability to quickly deploy technology resources, has been
essential to help communities operate during the COVID shutdown in South
Africa. Using AWS, [COVID Connect](http://covidconnect.co.za/), a
volunteer group of local developers, was able to spin up and deploy a
website on AWS in three days, where hospitals and clinics with a
shortage of food, water, or medical supplies can be quickly connected
with people and organizations that have surplus of these materials.
Also, AWS Partner Network partner iOCO was able to launch a [website for
the Solidarity Fund](https://www.solidarityfund.co.za/) in just two
days. The Solidarity Fund collects donations that will help South
Africa's national health response to COVID-19, contribute to research to
detect and understand the magnitude of the disease, and support those
whose lives have been disrupted by the pandemic. In just three days,
another [APN partner, A2D24](https://www.a2d24.com/), was able to
develop and deploy *an automated digital communications platform for a
private hospital group, to* inform anyone who has been in one of their
hospitals of possible exposure to a confirmed COVID 19 patient. *The
system automatically sends an alert message and* conducts an SMS based
triage where, each day, patients are asked questions about the type of
symptoms they are experiencing and, based on the responses, recommends
what to do, and whether to seek further medical help. This application
*has helped to provide critical care to thousands of patients and staff
across the country, and potentially prevent many new infections*.

Elsewhere in the healthcare space, organizations have been using cloud
technologies to speed up research into COVID-19 and help educate people
across Africa. [Hyrax Biosciences](https://hyraxbio.co.za/), a South
African company known for its contributions to HIV drug-resistance
testing, has released a software tool to detect mutations in the genome
of SARS-CoV-2, the coronavirus responsible for COVID-19. Using AWS, they
have developed the Exatype SARS-CoV-2 platform, which tracks the
evolution of the virus as it spreads, and have been able to reduce the
time spent analyzing datasets from days or weeks to hours or minutes. To
educate citizens on measures to take in order to stop the spread of
COVID-19 or quickly find medical help when they fall ill,
[GovChat](https://www.govchat.org/), South Africa's largest citizen
engagement platform, launched a COVID-19 application in less than 2
weeks on AWS. The application provides health advice and recommendations
on whether to take a test for COVID-19, information on the nearest
COVID-19 testing facility, the ability to receive test results, and the
ability for citizens to report COVID-19 symptoms for themselves, their
family, or household members. We have also seen more innovative ways to
educate and inform people during this time. A good example is the work
[Digitata Networks](http://networks.digitata.com/) is doing in Malawi.
Using AWS, they have developed a mobile-based COVID-19 information
portal and game that tests and enhances people's knowledge of the virus.
The game is freely accessible and users are given multi-choice questions
on COVID-related topics to help test and grow their knowledge of the
virus, how it is transmitted, and when to seek medical attention. The
game was built in less than five days and now serves more than 2.8
million requests per day.

Learning more about how our customers and partners are doing
inspirational things at this uncertain time leads us to believe the
future for Africa is bright. We have been in South Africa for over 15
years and continue to invest in jobs, community support, and technology
infrastructure. The AWS Africa (Cape Town) Region will open countless
opportunities for organizations of all sizes, and we look forward to
seeing the inspiring innovations that will come from our customers in
Africa over the coming weeks, months, and years. To learn more about AWS
Africa (Cape Town) please visit
[here](http://aws.amazon.com/local/africa/cape-town).

