---
date: "2020-04-28T00:00:00Z"
title: 'Reaffirming our commitment to Italy: Introducing the AWS Europe (Milan) Region'
twittercard: The new AWS Europe (Milan) Region is now open for business
twitterimage: /images/milano-card.jpg
twitterlargeimage: "true"
useexcerpt: "true"
---

<img src="/images/milano-card.jpg" width="650">


The global healthcare pandemic has been like nothing many of us in
Europe have ever known. During this time, many organizations have been
contemplating their role in the COVID-19 crisis, and how they can best
serve their communities. I can tell you it has been no different for us
at Amazon Web Services (AWS). We are focused on where we can make the
biggest difference, to help the global communities in which we all live
and work. This is why today we are announcing that t**he [AWS Europe
(Milan) Region is now
open](https://aws.amazon.com/local/italy/milan/).** The opening of the
AWS (Milan) Region demonstrates our ongoing commitment to the people of
Italy and the long-term potential we believe there is in the country.

<!--more-->

AWS Regions are composed of Availability Zones, which each comprise of
one or more data centers and are located in separate and distinct
geographic locations with enough distance to significantly reduce the
risk of a single event impacting business continuity, yet near enough to
provide low latency for high availability applications. Each
Availability Zone has independent power, cooling, and physical security
and is connected via redundant, ultra-low-latency networking. AWS
customers focused on high availability can design their applications to
run in multiple Availability Zones to achieve even greater
fault-tolerance. AWS infrastructure regions meet the highest levels of
security, compliance, and data protection and, with the new region,
local customers with data residency requirements to store their content
in Italy, can do so with the assurance that they retain complete
ownership of their data and it will not move unless they choose to move
it. This region is the latest in a long list of investments we have made
in Italy.

AWS first established a presence in Italy in 2012, with the launch of an
AWS Edge location in Milan. This was followed by an AWS office in the
city in 2014 and another one in Rome in 2016, with significant and
growing teams of account managers, business development managers,
customer services representatives, partner managers, professional
services consultants, solutions architects, technical account managers,
and many more to help customers of all sizes as they move to the cloud.
Also in 2016, AWS acquired Asti-based company NICE Software, a leading
provider of software and services for high performance and technical
computing, located in Piedmont. In 2017, a second Edge location was
opened in Palermo with an AWS Direct Connect endpoint launched in Milan
in 2019, further helping customers establish a dedicated network
connection from their premises to AWS. Later in 2019, AWS launched two
additional Edge locations in Milan along with one in Rome to support
customer demand. These investments are in addition to the thousands of
permanent jobs and over €4 billion of investment from Amazon, since
2010.

Now, more than ever, we are seeing customers use efficient and secure
cloud computing infrastructure to make a [meaningful impact on lives
around the
world](https://blog.aboutamazon.eu/aws/how-amazon-web-services-is-supporting-customers-in-their-response-to-covid-19).
In Italy, many organizations are leveraging AWS to tackle the challenges
brought on by the pandemic, whether it is to empower scientific
research, facilitate remote working and remote learning, or providing
new services to answer the emergency at hand. For example, in scientific
research, [Expert System](http://www.expertsystem.com), an Italian AWS
Partner Network (APN) Independent Software Vendor (ISV), has built their
Clinical Research Platform on AWS. This platform aggregates information
from various trusted sources of scientific content and news releases,
providing scientists working in biomedical research across the globe
with an efficient, one-stop shop where they can discover the latest
insights to drive their research. In addition to research, there are
thousands of education companies and institutes that have rapidly set up
secure, scalable remote learning solutions so millions of students
continue to get the education they deserve. One example is [bSmart
Labs](https://www.bsmartlabs.com/en/), an Italian digital education ISV
that has used the Amazon Chime Software Development Kit (SDK) to quickly
add video calling capabilities to their bSmart Classroom remote learning
application, delivering real-time communication functionality to 560,000
bSmart Classroom teachers and students during this period.

With the lockdown restrictions across Italy, the sharing of information
from local public administrations, and the ability to quickly answer
citizens' questions has become a vital public service. One of the best
examples has been the work of [Comune di
Codogno](https://www.comune.codogno.lo.it/home.html), an Italian
municipality in Lombardy. Using Amazon Connect, the municipality built a
call center in less than a week to route calls directly to municipality
staff, helping to quickly answer citizens' questions on COVID-19, at a
time when speed is critical. Another example, critical to the contagion
management efforts, has been providing people across Italy with
facemasks. In this case, Italian textile manufacturer [Miroglio
Group](https://www.mirogliogroup.com/en/) has changed the production
chain of one of their factories in Alba, northwest Italy, from producing
textile for garments to producing washable, cotton and elastane masks.
With their staff in confinement at home, Miroglio, was able to
coordinate this change of production remotely thanks to the cloud.
Another example of how Italians are fighting back is
[COD19.it](https://www.cod19.it/), an application created by
Gianvincenzo Zuccotti, Principal of Medicine of the Milan State
University, and developed by APN Partner [Link Up](https://link-up.it/).
The application allows frontline staff to get in contact, via phone,
with positive, and suspected positive, Coronavirus patients who have
been discharged from hospital. This allows medical staff to check the
discharged patient's health status, calling them twice a day, and giving
them ongoing medical assistance, through constant remote monitoring and
support, until they are certified as fully recovered.

These are just a small number of the ways customers in Italy have been
using cloud technologies to aid their communities. Amazon Italy is also
committing to the national effort by donating €3.5 Million to Italian
Civil Protection and non-profit organizations to support the fight
against COVID-19, across all of the Italian territories and communities
in which Amazon employees live and work. We have been impressed by how
our customers are innovating in the use of technology, we've also been
impressed by the solidarity and ingenuity displayed by the Italian
people. From 3D printing respiratory valves for hospitals to the heroic
efforts of all medical and first responder staff, the Italian people
have been a beacon of resolve in this time.